---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 6. Post Launch: Further Decentralization & Maintenance

After the successful launch of a decentralized network on its mainnet, the focus shifts towards further decentralization and continued maintenance and development. This phase is critical for enhancing the network's resilience, promoting community-driven development, and ensuring long-term sustainability.Generally speaking, protocols that aim to increase the decentralization of their network focus on two key areas:

* **A wider distribution of development teams**: this pertains to both core development of the protocol and developers who launch dApps on the network (if applicable). In the early stages of a protocol, it is not uncommon that a single developer company is responsible for most of the maintenance on the network. However, to decrease the likelihood to meet the criterion of the _“common enterprise”_, more entities need to be involved in the success of the network. We can look at the Ethereum Foundation as an example, where a large number of entities are responsible for core development, and an even larger amount is responsible for Ethereum’s impressive ecosystem. All of these parties contribute to the success of the ecosystem, and as an extension, its token. At this stage, an investor could not buy the token and be expected to believe their return on investment is dependent on the Ethereum Foundation alone.
* **Increasing the number of entities funding the protocol’s development: a large number of development teams is only half of the story. If these teams continue to receive funding from a single entity, one could still argue that the success of the network is dependent on the funding entity. Besides a foundation’s treasury and a network’s community pool, protocols generally attempt to create lively ecosystems with multiple parties becoming successful. In an ideal world, these third parties contribute back to the development of the network through funding.**
